Simpleperf

Overview
Simpleperf is my own simplified version of iperf using sockets. This is Python-based command-line tool that will run
on a virtual network managed by mininet inside a virtual machine. It's created to measure performance of network.
It runs in to modes: server mode and client mode. The client mode specifies the amount of data to be sent, and the server
accepts the data in chunks (1000 bytes) and counts how much data was received during from the connected clients.
Tool provides options to configure various parameters, such as the port number, IP address, format (B, KB, MB), total
duration of data generation, transfer number of bytes specified by -n flag (e.g., 10B, 10KB, 10MB), printing statistics
at user-selected intervals, and number of parallel connections.

Requirements
- Python 3.6
- Mininet ()
- A virtual machine (e.g. VirtualBox, UTM - when you have MAC) with a Linux-based operating system (Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS
  (Focal Fossa))

Installation
1. Set up a virtual machine with a Linux-based operating system and install Mininet by following the instructions
   on the Mininet download page (http://mininet.org/download/)
2. Python 3 or higher
3. Clone the simpleperf repository to the virtual machine
4. Open terminal and navigate to the directory containing the source code.

Usage
Running simpleperf with mininet
1. In my repository there is already custom network topology (portfolio-topology.py) which can run with the following
   command:
   sudo python3 portfolio-topology.py

2. There is a possibility that specified TCP/UDP port number will need to be removed (to start Mininet properly)
   in that case run the following command:
   sudo fuser -k 665

3. Once the Mininet starts, you can run the simpleperf tool on different hosts within the custom network topology.
   Run:
   xterm h1 h7 (can choose whatever you wants numbers of hosts)

4. In this case it will open two windows, in the terminal hor host 'h1', run simpleperf in server mode:
   python3 simpleperf.py -s

   Here is an example how one should be able to invoke the server:
   python3 simpleperf -s -b <ip_address> -p <portnumber> -f MB

5. In the terminal hor host 'h7', run simpleperf in client mode:
   python3 simpleperf.py -c

   To operate simpleperf in client mode, it should be invoked as follows, it depends on the user what parameters
   would like to use:
   python3 simpleperf -c -I <server_ip> -p <server_port> -t <time>

Customization
- The server and client listens on port 8088 by default, but it can be modified in the simpleperf.py file if necessary
  or just by writing the simpleperf command with correct arguments -p flag (server, client).
- Server's IP address is by default 0.0.0.0 which means that a server is configured to listen on 0.0.0.0 is listening
  on all avaiable network interfaces, including localhost address (127.0.0.1), it can be modified in the simpleperf.py
  file if necessary or just by writing the simpleperf command with correct arguments -b flag (server) or -I (client).
- The client sends data in chunks of up to 1000 bytes (data variable) by default, but you can modify this in
  the client.py or utils.py file if necessary.

Contributors
    Paula Sielawa (sielawapaula@gmail.com) - author

